# Chord Progression Generator

## Introduction

Often times in pop music, songs will be governed by a chord progression or multiple chortd progressions for different parts of a song. When I first started playing guitar, I didn't really understnad music theory. All these years later, I still don't understand music theory that well. Neverthless, I think I might be able to help people create chord progressions when they don't really know where to begin. Since my knowledge of how to string together chords in a pleasent wayy is limited, I will try to give a basic formula for generating more simple chord progressions as opposed to fancy and complex ones found in songs of bands like Radiohead. I will give options that leverage topics such as modes to allow people to customize their "feel" and "mood" and will also allow people to decide how long a chord progression will last. In addition, I will give the option to use certain chords for longer than others. I will also stick to basic chords that are major or minor and not use augmented or diminished chords. One final note: I will describe chords using numbers like II or IV to represent their relative position from a major scale root. I will use C major as a way to test that these chord progressions don't sound bad. I imagine some may be awful but for the most part they will work. I may get sidetracked along the way and am interersted to see where this project will go! (This project will no doubt require research on things like cadence and many customization parameters.)